---
layout: default
title: 10.33 Vacation
parent: 10 Lab Processes
grand_parent: Lab Management
nav_order: 34
---

# 10.33 Vacation

Welcome to the vacation section for the digital-work lab! This guide streamlines the administrative process for requesting and managing vacation time. Enjoy your time off and return refreshed.

## 1. Requesting Vacation 

- In general it is **appreciated when vacation is taken during the semester break**.
- Supervisors will **review and respond to the vacation requests** within **7 business days** of receiving the submission.
- If the requested vacation period coincides with a **peak operational period** or other **scheduling constraints**, employees will be notified promptly to discuss alternatives.

### 1.1 Scientific Staff:

Fill out the official vacation request form, available on the HR page of Uni Bamberg (Urlaubsantrag für wissenschaftliche Beschäftigte) **[Link](https://www.uni-bamberg.de/abt-personal/formulare-infos-und-merkblaetter/)** and send it to your supervisor or just send an informal e-mail with the requested vacation date. 

### 1.2 Non-scientific Staff:

Send your vacation request via **[BayZeit](https://www.uni-bamberg.de/intranet/arbeitsplatz/zeiterfassung/)**. Specific instructions can be found in the manual, which is available under the same link.  

### 1.3 Student Assistants:

Send an informal e-mail to your supervisor with the requested vacation date. To calculate your vacation days you can use this **[form](https://zuvportal.uni-bamberg.de/Hilfskraftvertraege/urlaubsanspruch_hk_ber.jspx)**.

## 2. Documentation - Vacation Balances Tracking:

- The remaining vacation days for **non-scientific staff** are stated in **[BayZeit](https://www.uni-bamberg.de/intranet/arbeitsplatz/zeiterfassung/)** (Urlaubsbogen für aktuelles Jahr)
- **Student assistants** are requested to track their current balance of vacation days/hours on their monthly timesheet.
It is the employees' responsibility to ensure they have **sufficient vacation days available** before submitting a request.

## 3. Communication - Notification to Colleagues:

- **Notify your immediate colleagues personally and state vacation/absence days in your outlook calendar.** 
- **Inform your students (if applicable):** If you're a teacher, notify your students about your absence. Depending on their age and the nature of your classes, you can either inform them verbally or send a written communication. Include the dates of your vacation and any instructions or assignments they need to complete in your absence.
- **Set up an out-of-office message:** Configure an out-of-office email auto-responder, clearly stating the dates of your vacation and providing an alternative point of contact for urgent matters.

```
Sehr geehrter Absender,
vielen Dank für Ihre Nachricht.
Bis einschließlich XXX befinde ich mich außer Haus
und habe bis dahin leider keinen Zugriff auf eingehende E-Mails.
Bitte wenden Sie sich in dringenden Fällen während
meiner Abwesenheit an meinen Kollegen XXX
unter XXX oder telefonisch
unter +49 (0) 123 456 789.
Mit freundlichen Grüßen
XXX
```

## 4. Handover Procedures

- **Communication and briefing:** Prior to the researcher's holiday, they should schedule a meeting with the team members to discuss the ongoing projects, tasks, and any pending deadlines. They should communicate any critical information, potential challenges, and specific instructions for handling various scenarios.
- **Documenting project details:** The researcher should ensure that all project-related information is documented and organized in a central location. The team members should have access to this documentation. Additionally, the researcher should clearly outline the responsibilities and roles of each team member during the handover period.

## 4. Exceptions and Special Circumstances

### 4.1 Emergency Situations

- During emergency situations when an important team member is on vacation, it is crucial to have a plan in place. The first step is to identify a designated **backup or point of contact** who can assume the responsibilities and decision-making authority of the absent team member.
- This backup should be well-informed about the ongoing projects, possess the necessary expertise, and be able to make critical decisions in the absence of the vacationing team member.

### 4.2 Changes in Vacation Plans

- When changes need to be made to the vacation plan, **open and transparent communication is the key**.
The team member should promptly notify their supervisor about the change, providing a clear explanation and any necessary documentation.

## 6. FAQs and Additional Resources

### Frequently Asked Questions

### 1. How far in advance should vacation requests be submitted?

*Vacation requests should be submitted at least two weeks in advance, to allow for proper planning and coordination.*

### 2. What is the policy for carrying over unused vacation days to the next year?
*
It is recommended to take all vacation days in the same year. You may be required to take your vacations before a certain date in the following year (other regulations may apply).*
