---
layout: default
title: 20.31 Cover letter
parent: 20 Research Processes
grand_parent: Research
nav_order: 32
---

# 20.31 Cover letter

## Example 1: JOSS

Dear JOSS editors,

I am pleased to submit the Python package BibDedupe for consideration and possible publication at the Journal of Open-Source Software. This submission addresses the clear need for effective software tailored to the detection of duplicates within bibliographic data.

In academic research, especially in areas involving meta-analysis and research synthesis, the accurate identification of duplicate bibliographic entries is essential. These duplicates, often resulting from the dissemination of a single study across multiple databases, can affect the integrity of research outcomes. Existing tools for deduplication generally do not cater adequately to the unique aspects of bibliographic data, which has very specific and idiosyncratic variations in authors' names, publication titles, and source details. BibDedupe is designed to address these specific challenges, focusing on achieving zero false positives to ensure that each unique study is correctly represented in research summaries.

Our development is informed by a comprehensive understanding of bibliographic data management and data quality requirements. It employs a detailed approach to data preprocessing, blocking, matching, and merging, offering efficiency and reproducibility in deduplicating bibliographic records. The performance of the package is particularly beneficial for researchers engaged in literature reviews involving large volumes of publications.

BibDedupe is one of the first open-source tools in its domain that actively seeks peer review of its code. The field of literature review and meta-analysis software has long been dominated by proprietary and non-peer-reviewed tools, leading to a gap in the availability of rigorously evaluated, open-source options. By submitting BibDedupe to JOSS, we aim to raise standards in the field, encouraging the development of more rigorous, effective, and transparent tools for conducting literature reviews and meta-analyses. This effort aligns with a growing demand in the academic community for open-source tools that are not only functional but also validated through peer review.

I believe BibDedupe will be a valuable contribution to the Journal of Open-Source Software, appealing to researchers looking for efficient and reliable bibliographic data management tools. I look forward to sharing more details in a paper to be submitted to a peer-reviewed journal.

There are no conflicts of interest.

Best regards,

Gerit Wagner
