---
layout: default
title: 10.04 SOP
parent: 10 Lab Processes
grand_parent: Lab Management
nav_order: 5
---

# 10.04 Standard operating procedures
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

- TOC
{:toc}

--- 

## Communication guidelines

### 1. Respectful interaction
- Treat fellow students, faculty, and staff with respect and professionalism, fostering a positive learning and working environment.
- Use inclusive language and avoid discriminatory or offensive remarks.
- Value diverse perspectives and foster an inclusive environment where everyone feels respected.

### 2. Efficient conversations
- Clearly communicate the purpose and objectives of discussions to avoid confusion.
- Be concise and to the point, while providing necessary context.
- Encourage active participation and avoid unnecessary tangents to stay focused on the topic at hand.

### 3. Trust
- Build trust among students, faculty, and staff by fostering an environment of honesty, integrity, and accountability.
- Demonstrate reliability by meeting deadlines, honoring commitments, and fulfilling academic responsibilities.
- Respect confidentiality and privacy when discussing sensitive matters, such as personal or academic information.

### 4. Listening and transparency
- Actively listen to others, giving them your full attention and demonstrating empathy.
- Encourage open and honest communication by creating a safe space for colleagues to express their thoughts and concerns.
- Share information transparently, ensuring that relevant updates and decisions are communicated in a timely manner.

### 5. Not being afraid to make mistakes
- Emphasize a growth mindset where mistakes are seen as opportunities for learning and improvement.
- Encourage employees to take calculated risks and provide support when mistakes occur.
- Foster an environment where individuals feel comfortable admitting their mistakes and learning from them.

### 6. Getting feedback
- Encourage a culture of feedback, where both positive and constructive feedback are valued.
- Provide specific and actionable feedback, focusing on behaviors and outcomes rather than personal criticism.
- Regularly seek feedback from colleagues and actively listen to their perspectives to promote continuous improvement.

<br>

---

## Channels and Media

### E-mail

- Use clear and concise subject lines to convey the purpose of the email effectively.
- Maintain professionalism and appropriate tone in your emails, considering the recipient and the nature of the communication.
- Avoid overloading emails with unnecessary information or attachments and ensure that the content is relevant and easy to understand.
- Respond to emails in a timely manner, acknowledging receipt and providing a helpful response or next steps when required.

### Video chats

- Establish clear guidelines for scheduling and conducting video chats, ensuring that they are productive and efficient.
- Test the technology and ensure a stable internet connection before starting a video chat.
- Be mindful of video chat etiquette, such as muting when not speaking, avoiding distractions, and maintaining professional appearance.
- Encourage active participation, ensuring that everyone has an opportunity to contribute and share their thoughts.

### Accessibility

- Ensure that communication channels and media are accessible to all individuals, including those with disabilities or different learning styles.
- Use alternative formats for communication, such as providing written summaries or transcripts for audio and video content.
- Consider accessibility features when choosing communication tools or platforms, ensuring they comply with accessibility standards.

### Personal conversation

- Encourage personal conversations as a means to build relationships, trust, and rapport among team members.
- Establish appropriate boundaries and guidelines for personal conversations, ensuring they do not interfere with productivity or create an exclusionary environment.
- Respect others' privacy and confidentiality during personal conversations and avoid discussing sensitive or confidential matters.

### Handbook as documentation platform

- Use the handbook to document guidelines, processes and other helpful information. We encourage you to [contribute](10.10.handbook.html) to this valuable resource. 
- Encourage collaboration and contribution from team members to keep the handbook updated and relevant.
- Ensure that your contribution to the handbook is well-structured and easily searchable, making it a valuable resource for finding information and promoting knowledge sharing.

### Shared calendar

- Ensure that the shared calendar is regularly updated with important events, meetings, and deadlines.
- Establish guidelines for scheduling meetings and appointments, ensuring that conflicts are minimized and participants have sufficient notice.
- Use the shared calendar to promote transparency and coordination, allowing team members to stay informed and plan their work effectively.

<br>

---

## Sharing contents and research results

- Before the publication of results, research data (including code, interview data and manuscripts) should be kept private.
- Coordinate with your team on when the publication will be available to the public and set a clear time frame to avoid misunderstandings.

<br>

---

## More information

To access the following, a VPN connection is required

+ [Official Guideline](https://www.uni-bamberg.de/fileadmin/uni/verwaltung/presse/Dateien/2016/2016-08-29_Netiquette_WEB.pdf) 
+ [Contacts for further questions](https://www.uni-bamberg.de/intranet/dienstleistungen-fuer-uniangehoerige/kommunikation/) 

