---
layout: default
title: 20.29 Writing
parent: 20 Research Processes
grand_parent: Research
nav_order: 30
---

# 20.29 Writing

## General guidelines

- Revise often
- Ask colleagues for friendly reviews
- Spell-check
- Avoid plagiarism

## Style

- [Strunk and White: The elements of style](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Elements_of_Style)

## Citations and reference sections

Citing allows us to make the results of others understandable and give proper recognition to the authors. There are two main reasons why we cite: firstly, to respect copyrighted works, and secondly, to adhere to the principles of good scientific practice by appropriately acknowledging the contributions of others.

In information systems or computer science, indirect citation is usually used, as it is more about the theories, studies and results and not about the direct wording.

## 1. Citation in a Markdown format 

### 1.1 In the text

For Markdown we use a refernce bib to link quotations and in the text we use the sqaure brakets and than the @ followed by the name we choose in the reference bib.
For example: "[@LeeAnderson2001]"

#### 1.1.1 Indirect Citation

You always have to use your own words for an indirect citation. In addition to ensure clarity in distinguishing between your own work and indirect citations, it is recommended to use introductory phrases if the formatting and source citation alone are not sufficient. These phrases help to clearly indicate which content is your own and which is being cited indirectly.

Example for introductiory sentences:

- In the following three sections / chapter I summarize the results of Maier [@Maier2011].
- Müller [@Müller2004, p. 23] distinguishes between [...] . 

Example:


#### 1.1.2 Direct Citation

Direct quotations should be reproduced word for word, including any old spelling or spelling mistakes. To indicate a direct quote, use quotation marks. For longer quotations of three lines or more, you can format them by indenting, using italics, or setting them in a smaller font. In such cases, quotation marks are not necessary. If you use German quotes, do not translate them, use only the original

Example:

- „Ein Buch zitieren, aus dem man einen Satz übernommen hat, heißt Schulden zahlen“[@UmbertoEco1980]

### 1.2 In the Reference Bib

- Books:
    @book{IndividualNaming,
        author                        = {"Lastname", "Firstname"},
        title                         = {"Title"},
        year                          = {"Year"},
        publisher                     = {"Publsiher"},
    }
    
    Example:
    @book{Kolb2014,
        author                        = {Kolb, David A},
        title                         = {Experiential learning},
        year                          = {2014},
        publisher                     = {FT press},
    }

- For essays in collected editions:
    @incollection{IndividualNaming,
        author                        = {"NameAuthor1", "NameAuthor2"},
        booktitle                     = {"Booktitle"},
        title                         = {"Title"},
        year                          = {"Year"},
        pages                         = {"Pagenumbers"},
        publisher                     = {"Publisher"},
    }

    Example:
    @incollection{Anderson1984a,
        author                        = {Anderson, Richard C},
        booktitle                     = {Theoretical models},
        title                         = {Role of the reader's schema in comprehension, learning, and memory},
        year                          = {2018},
        pages                         = {136--145},
        publisher                     = {Routledge},
    }

- For journal articles with DOI
    @article{IndividualNaming,
        doi                           = {"DOInumber},
        author                        = {"NameAuthor1", "NameAuthor2"},
        journal                       = {"JOurnalName"},
        title                         = {"Title"},
        year                          = {"Year"},
        volume                        = {"VolumeNumber"},
        number                        = {"Number"},
        pages                         = {"Pagenumbers"},
    }

    Example:
    @article{LeeAnderson2001,
        doi                           = {10.1006/COGP.2000.0747},
        author                        = {Anderson, John R},
        journal                       = {Cognitive Psychology},
        title                         = {Does learning a complex task},
        year                          = {2001},
        volume                        = {42},
        number                        = {3},
        pages                         = {267--316},
    }

- Conference Papers



    Examples:


- Unpublished Papers



    Exmample:



- Websites
    @online{Microsoft2018,
        author                        = {{"NameAuthor"}},
        title                         = {"Title"},
        year                          = {"Year"},
        url                           = {"URL"},
    }

    Example:
    @online{Microsoft2018,
        author                        = {{Microsoft News Center}},
        title                         = {Microsoft to acquire GitHub for $7.5 billion},
        year                          = {2018},
        url                           = {https://news.microsoft.com/2018/06/04/microsoft-to-acquire-github-for-7-5-billion/},
    }

- For URL: 

    Complete WWW address including the transmission protocol (usually "http://") in lower case (unless upper case is mandatory for the retrieval).

- For Year: 

    If the year cannot be determined, the year digits are replaced by "oJ".

## 2. Citation in a Word document

### 2.1 In the text

In the text, the author-year system is used, the written name and the year are written in brackets.
For example: "(Andersson, 2001)".

#### 2.1.1 Indirect Citation

You always have to use your own words for an indirect citation. In addition to ensure clarity in distinguishing between your own work and indirect citations, it is recommended to use introductory phrases if the formatting and source citation alone are not sufficient. These phrases help to clearly indicate which content is your own and which is being cited indirectly.

Example for introductiory sentences:

- In the following three sections / chapter I summarize the results of Maier (2011).
- Müller (2004, p. 23) distinguishes between [...] . 

#### 2.1.2 Direct Citation

Direct quotations should be reproduced word for word, including any old spelling or spelling mistakes. To indicate a direct quote, use quotation marks. For longer quotations of three lines or more, you can format them by indenting, using italics, or setting them in a smaller font. In such cases, quotation marks are not necessary. If you use German quotes, do not translate them, use only the original

Example:

- „Ein Buch zitieren, aus dem man einen Satz übernommen hat, heißt Schulden zahlen“(Umberto Eco,1980)

### 2.2 In the list of literature / references

Every literature / source / reference must be in the named in the text and the list of literature / reference.

You have to differentiate between the following kinds of literature / sources / references:

- Books:

    NameAuthor1 InitialAuthor1{, NameAuthor2 InitialAuthor2…} (Year) Title {, Edition Ed}. {Publisher, }Place.

- For essays in collected editions:

    NameAuthor1 InitialAuthor1{, NameAuthor2 InitialAuthor2>...} (Year) Title.

    In: NameEditor1 InitialEditor1 {, NameEditor2 InitialEditor2...} (Ed.) Title of collective work {, edition Ed}. {Publisher, } Place, Pagination-from-to 

    For journal articles: UnnamedAuthor1 InitialAuthor1 {, UnnamedAuthor2 InitialAuthor2...} (Year) Title. name of journal or standard abbreviation year(issue):page numbers-from-to.

- For journal articles with DOI (and page numbers):

    NameAuthor1 InitialAuthor1 {, NameAuthor2 InitialAuthor2...} (Year) Title. Journal name or standard abbreviation Year (issue):page numbers-from-to. doi: "DOI".

- For journal articles with DOI (if no page numbers known):

    NameAuthor1 InitialAuthor1 {, NameAuthor2 InitialAuthor2...} (Year) Title. Journal name or standard abbreviation . doi: "DOI".

- For conference papers (without editor, without publisher):

    InitialAuthor1 InitialAuthor1 {, InitialAuthor2 InitialAuthor2...} (Year>) Title. In: title of conference volume {, organisation}, place of conference, S page numbers 
    
- For conference papers (without editor, with publisher): 

    InitialAuthor1 InitialAuthor1 {, InitialAuthor2 InitialAuthor2...} (Year) Title. In: title of conference volume {, organization}. <
    Editing publisher, place of publication, p page numbers.

- For conference papers (with editor, without publisher):

    NameAuthor1 InitialAuthor1 {, NameAuthor2 InitialAuthor2...} (Year) Title. In: InitialEditor1 InitialEditor1> {, InitialEditor2 InitialEditor2...} (Ed.) Title of conference volume, place of conference, p page numbers.

- For conference papers (with editor, with publisher):

    NameAuthor1 InitialAuthor1 {, NameAuthor2 InitialAuthor2...} (Year) Title. In: InitialEditor1 InitialEditor1 {, InitialEditor2 InitialEditor2...} (Ed.) Title of conference volume. Editing publisher, place of publication, p page numbers.

- For unpublished papers (e.g. working and discussion papers, not on-line):

    BusinessNameAuthor1 InitialAuthor1 {, BusinessNameAuthor2 InitialAuthor2...} (Year) Title. Title of contribution type, Organisation
    For online sources: InitialAuthor1 InitialAuthor1 {, InitialAuthor2 InitialAuthor2...} (Year) Title. URL. Retrieved on "date YYYY-MM-DD".

- For URL: 

    Complete WWW address including the transmission protocol (usually "http://") in lower case (unless upper case is mandatory for the retrieval).

- For Year: 

    If the year cannot be determined, the year digits are replaced by "oJ".

