---
layout: default
title: 20.20 Paper templates
parent: 20 Research Processes
grand_parent: Research
nav_order: 21
---

# 20.20 Paper templates

## Working with a Markdown Template

Start your manuscript development by using the [Markdown template](https://github.com/digital-work-lab/paper-template){: target="_blank"}. This template provides a structured format for your initial drafts, helping to organize content efficiently.

[Create new paper repository](https://github.com/digital-work-lab/paper-template/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#setup){: .btn .btn-green target="_blank"}

## Collaboration and Version Control

Leverage Git for version control, particularly useful in collaborative projects. This enables multiple authors to simultaneously work on the document and track changes, facilitated by hosting the templates on GitHub.

## Writing the Paper

Draft your paper in the Markdown template. Ensure you cover all essential sections such as Introduction, Literature Review, Methodology, Results, Discussion, and Conclusion.

## Incorporating Citations and References

Manage and format citations and references using tools like Zotero or Mendeley. Adhere to citation styles as required by your target publication, utilizing CSL (Citation Style Language) resources found [here](https://github.com/citation-style-language/styles){: target="_blank"}.

## Finalizing the Manuscript

After completing your draft, focus on finalizing the formatting. This includes ensuring adherence to layout, figure placement, and stylistic requirements as per academic standards.

## Submission Preparation

- Prepare your manuscript for submission by completing the [pre-submission checklist](20.30.pre-submission.html), creating a [cover letter](20.31.coverletter.html) and obtaining co-author approvals.
- Compile any required supplementary materials.
- For final formatting, refer to the appropriate [Journal templates](https://github.com/digital-work-lab/templates){: target="_blank"} based on the journal’s specific guidelines.
