---
layout: default
title: 20.30 Pre-submission
parent: 20 Research Processes
grand_parent: Research
nav_order: 31
---

# 20.30 Pre-submission checklist

This checklist can be used to produce camera-ready manuscripts (initials submissions, revisions, and final versions).
The checks should be completed in order (keep this in mind when updating this checklist).

# Orga

- [ ] Check Submission Deadline

# Clarity

Things to keep in mind:

 - Did you put a hook into both the abstract and the first paragraph of the article? Even excellent ideas do not sell themselves. So, you must give the sales pitch, the contribution, the unique data, the natural experiment, the current practitioner application, the follow-up to something in that journal, or whatever it is that pulls in the referee, the editor, and the journal readership.
 - Is the research question stated clearly in the first few sentences of both the abstract and the introduction?
 - If your article was a reject (or revise) and resubmit, did you clearly fix any concerns?
 - [ ] Check whether there is previous reserach in the target journal that can be cited.

- [ ] Were there any major conceptual changes/prominent phrases that have been changed recently?
- [ ] Consistently use the same terminology (avoid synonyms) of conceptually releveant terms
- [ ] Present major conceptual blocks in the same order (same numbering for hypotheses)

# Template and Formatting

- [ ] Used the correct template from the journal website? (this might require an additional, external checklist) Check with your co-authors when this requires transferring the whole manuscript from Word to Latex or vice versa.
- [ ] Page limit?
- [ ] Fonts: types and sizes (auch in Grafiken, Tabellen – Alignment of Headings etc.)
- [ ] Zeilenabstand
- [ ] Check Metadata (Authors, Title, ...)
- [ ] Abbreviations introduced AND consistently used (EXCEPT in titles/captions/figures/tables!)

- [ ] formatting of footnotes
- [ ] Check references to Figures, Tables and Appendices
- [ ] doppelte Leerzeichen?
- [ ] check: text-justify

- [ ] Consistent Capitalization
- [ ] Consistent terminology (e.g., paper/article)

- [ ] Check field references to appendices/figures: accidentally included the title?

# Spelling

- export as docx & spell-check
- Tempus (Methodology: simple past)
- , which/who
- i.e., e.g., (with comma)

https://www.grammarly.com/blog/comma-before-or/

- a vs. an
  A well known grammar rule says that we should use an before vowel sounds; for example, an accident, an item, an hour. We use a otherwise: a book, a hotel, a university.
  Notice that we say an hour, not a hour. The choice of a or an is based upon the sound of the word, not the spelling. Hour sounds as if it starts with a vowel sound (ow); hence, we use an. Following this rule, we would say a historic, not an historic because   (for most speakers) historic doesn't start with a vowel sound. Words of three or more syllables that start with h are treated differently by some speakers, though. (This may be because of the tendency of some regional accents to drop initial Hs.)
  You only use an when the following sound is a vowel — that you should only look at the letter is a misconception. For example, you would say an hour but a horse, etc.

- its vs it's
  It's is a contraction for it is or it has.
  Its indicates possessive.
  ?!?! <-> http://www.englisch-hilfen.de/grammar/genitiv.htm
  Its' is never correct. Ever.

- 's can be a contraction of is (to be) and has. Also singular possessive!

- to the best of our knowledge

- above-mentioned (UK) vs. abovementioned (US)

- critcism vs critique: Laut dictionary ist “critique” tiefgründiger als “criticism”. “critic” ist aber eine Person die kritisiert.
- [ ] Web of Science is now owned/maintained by Clarivate Analytics, not Thomson Reuters; historically based on the Social Citation Index (SCI) developed by Eugene Garfield

# Tables and Figures

- [ ] Are your figures/tables self-contained? You should be able to read the article without looking at the figures/tables and vice versa. This is overlooked frustratingly often.
- [ ] Have you uploaded any lengthy tables as supplementary files for online publication?
- [ ] Search manuscript for "Verweisquelle"
- [ ] Search for 'p. (' to catch Docear4Word errors


Tables:

- [ ] alignment of decimals (in tables?)
- [ ] Have you provided appropriate table legends?
- [ ] Have you embedded any tables into the main text?
- [ ] Have they been cited in the text?
- [ ] Do the citation refer to the CORRECT Table/Figure?
- [ ] Tabellen-Alignment Probleme:  Absatz, Einzüge, Abstand nach und vor.

Figures:

- [ ] alignment:
  - central in article,
  - consistent margins inside the figure,
- [ ] use the same font-type for the text and the figures
- [ ] Grafiken als Text durchsuchbar (Word: emf/wmf Vektorgrafiken einbinden)
- [ ] Bei Screenshots: als PDF mit OCR einbinden
- [ ] Vektorgrafiken verwenden (nur notfalls Rastergrafiken, in hoher Auflösung), e.g. emf/wmf (for Word)

# Up-to-Date

 - [ ] Use latest statistics (including exclusion criteria)
 - [ ] Use latest model results
 - [ ] The variables in the background/methodology/results/discussion/intro/abstract/conclusion should be the same

# References

 - [ ] Go through reference list and check whether there are references that have been included accidentally (different topic)
 - [ ] Correct Reference Style? (check in-text citations and bibliography, there might be Errors in the CSL-file; e.g., and vs. &)
 - [ ] Bibliography: check whether all Citations are in the Bibliography,
 - [ ] in particular those in footnotes (there might be bugs, e.g. in Docear4Word)
 - [ ] Have all of the references been cited in the text?
 - [ ] check whether references in tables/figures are in the references section
 - [ ] check for (placement) of page references for direct quotes
 - [ ] consistent use of Anonymous instead of clear author name
 - [ ] check if .tex writes metadata to pdf (final version, not for submissions/revisions):
      \usepackage[pdftitle={Title of the paper}, pdfauthor={Gerit Wagner, Ross J. Anderson}, pdfkeywords={data security, eavesdropping}]{hyperref}
 - [ ] check: have all referneces been inserted as Word-Fields (Docear4Word): Mark each paragraph and check whether the references are displayed in darker grey
 - [ ] check AIS. 2011. “Senior Scholars’ Basket of Journals,”. (add Link as url/link field)

 - [ ] search manuscript for "reference" (to catch notes like (reference needed))

# Plagiarism

- Make sure to attribute credit (e.g., if the dataset builds on another paper, etc.)
Have you fully referenced text that has been taken from any source (including books, journals and the internet)?
-> plagiarism checker?

# Previous mistakes:

- check for quotes (make sure that we provide the page-numbers in the corresponding citation)
- short-title in the header not capitalized
- mixed up english/german: billion/million
- not explained a figure
- number should add up (e.g., when you present percentages!)
- text should match figures/tables if they are changed (e.g., fewer rows/items)
- Check whether descriptive statistics/plots/tables contain data in which outliers have been corrected (e.g., winsorized)
- Inconsistent Capitalization in Title
- Different terms used in text, caption and figure ("Epistemological" Building Blocks)

- Finally: Compare with previous version to catch accidental changes (Word: Überprüfen, Vergleichen)

# FINAL CHECKS

- [ ] check whether document contains changes in tracking changes mode
- [ ] create word file + '-submission.docx' and remove references before reference section
- [ ] Seitenumbrüche (Grafiken/Tabellen)
- [ ] Zeilenumbrüche (insbesondere in Übeschriften, bei Seitenzahlen (p.\n23)) (check whether words are divided correctly by consulting a dictionary.)
- [ ] Check if figures that have been imported from emf-files have a border. The border can be removed with Adobe Acrobat (Bearbeiten)

- [ ] acknowledge support by a funding body, acknowledge colleagues?
- [ ] acknowledge support of projects: EPIQUALIS

- [ ] update abstract in submission system?

- [ ] Check the pdfs! (there might be problems when creating the pdf from the word document!)

# Post-submission tasks:

- tag git-repo (CHECK whether the data exactly matches the paper!, e.g., compare regression results)
  - add specific version to Dockerfile (e.g., FROM rocker/tidyverse:3.4.3)
  - build dockerfile (docker build .)
  - run analyses in Dockerfile
  - save python package versions (pip freeze > requirements.txt)
  - [ ] to do: add note somewhere on how to restore python package versions (pip install -r requirements.txt)
  - create git-commit + tag
  - chage Dockerfile to latest (e.g., FROM rocker/tidyverse)
- create YYYY-MM-DD-JOURNAL- Manuscript.pdf
- create YYYY-MM-DD-JOURNAL- Submission Proof.pdf
- create YYYY-MM-DD-JOURNAL- Revision Sheet.pdf
- create YYYY-MM-DD-JOURNAL- Cover Letter.pdf
- add to waiting for
- reminder to check the progress of the submission
- inform colleagues about the submission/new publication?
update Goals and Strategy/Planning_Documents.odt
- Thank co-authors/hiwis
