---
layout: default
title: 30.01 Goals
parent: 30 Teaching Processes
grand_parent: Teaching
nav_order: 2
---

# 30.01 Goals: Teaching concept

## Why are we here?

We are fascinated by the **digitalization of work**, which continues to transform our conceptions of office jobs, reasons why we work, and the ways in which we organize resources.
This transformation is exemplified by work-from-home trends and the rise of digital nomads, which redefine the traditional workspace.
Employees are no longer tethered to a physical office, allowing for a more flexible, global, and often more productive work environment.
Furthermore, the emergence of open-source development enables collaborative, transparent, and community-driven models of development and innovation.
With the rise of generative artificial intelligence, accessing data, knowledge, and research findings has become more fluid and democratized, breaking down barriers to information and empowering a broader spectrum of individuals to contribute to and benefit from collective intelligence.
This dynamic landscape of digital work not only alters how we work but also enriches the tapestry of skills, perspectives, and experiences in the professional world.
As we explore the possible futures of work, each with unique opportunities and challenges, our academic journey includes preparing students for their future professions. 
Explore the possible futures of work, each with unique opportunities and challenges, is inherently interesting for students who are about to enter a digital world of work.

<!--
Our goal is to ...
create learning environments that afford  ... and effective learning experience 
-->

## What do we teach?

To be continued.

**Courses offered**

**Semester** | **Courses offered** |
--- | --- |
WS24-25 | - Lecture: Introduction into Information Systems <br> - [Theses](../35_theses.html) |
SS24 | - [Lecture: Introduction to Digital Work](../32_lectures/32.02.idw-ss24.html) <br> - WI-Project: Open Source Development <br> - The Literature Review Seminar <br> - [Theses](../35_theses.html) |
WS23-24 | - [WI-Project: Open Source Development](../33_projects/33.02.osd-ws23-24.html) <br> - [The Literature Review Seminar](../34_seminars/34.02.lrsem-ws23-24.html) <br> - [Theses](../35_theses.html) |
SS23 | - [Lecture: Introduction to Digital Work](../32_lectures/32.01.idw-ss23.html) <br> - [WI-Project: Open Source Development](../33_projects/33.01.osd-ss23.html) <br> - [Theses](../35_theses.html) |
WS22-23 | - [WI-Project: Open Source Development](../34_seminars/34.01.lrsem-ws22-23.html) <br> - [Theses](../35_theses.html) |

## How do we teach?

To be continued.
