---
layout: default
title: 30.10 Lectures
parent: 30 Teaching Processes
grand_parent: Teaching
nav_order: 11
---

# 30.10 Lectures

## Process

Copy the following as a checklist and create a new [lecture](../32_lectures/).

- When creating a new course: have it added to Flexnow (Modulkatalog).

## 1. Announce the course (4 months before)
 
Start: December (summer term), May (winter term)

Tasks:

- [ ] Professor: Update information on the website.
- [ ] Secretary: Create the course in Flexnow.
- [ ] Professor: Update information in Univis (add keywords „WI-Seminar“ and „WI-Seminare“ for seminars), check information on the website.

Deadline: mid-May (summer term), December/January (winter term)

## 2. Prepare the course (1 month before)

Start: March (summer term), September (winter term)

Tasks:

- [ ] Secretary and Professor: Set dates and request lecture rooms.
- [ ] IT department: Create the VC course, two weeks before the semester starts (automatically based on Univis).
- [ ] Professor: Create a reminder for the evaluations.
- [ ] Secretary: Add moderator and session dates in VC.
- [ ] Professor: Activate course in VC (visible to students).

Deadline: April (summer term), October (winter term)

## 3. Offer the course

Start: April (summer term), October (winter term)

Tasks:

- [ ] Professor: Schedule evaluations in the pen-ultimate week ([30.21.evaluations](30.21.evaluations.html)).
- [ ] Secretary: Order exam materials (Prüfungspapier, Mantelbögen).
- [ ] Professor (Secretary): Prepare the exams (Deadline: day of the exam), information is typically provided one month before the semester ends (E-Mail: "Prüferbestellung"). Check whether points add up, whether the number of points per task is consistent with the grading expectations - e.g., "list two examples" should correspond to 2 or 4 points. (**TODO: where to store the exam**). Review the exam for typos. Print it and prepare the exam materials. Add the date of the exam to the calendar and prepare to hand it over personally.
- [ ] Scheine ([Formular](https://www.uni-bamberg.de/ism/studium/anmeldung-scheinklausur/)), Scheinklausur-anmeldungen bei Erstellung der Klausurbögen berücksichtigen

## 4. Exam grading and documentation

Before grading (day of the exam)

- [ ] Professor: Cases of cheating (Unterschleif): immediately enter it into Flexnow and send the exam to the examination office (do not grade it)
- [ ] Professor: Cases of missed exams (Versäumnisklausuren): immediately enter it into Flexnow, archive the exams for 1 year.
- [ ] Professor: Send the exam sheets, protocolls (Anwesenheitslisten), and two empty exams to the examination office immediately after the exams are completed.
- [ ] Secretary: Empty exams (Versäumnis-Klausur): archive for one semester.

Grading

- [ ] Create reminder for the deadline: approx. 15. September (summer term), ??? (winter term). Grade early because colleagues may be on vacation before the deadline (not available to review failed exams).
- [ ] Add bonus points if any
- [ ] Do not dispose of empty exams
- [ ] Use the [grading scripts](https://github.com/digital-work-lab/handbook/tree/main/src/grading) to assign grades and prepare Flexnow import
- [ ] Have failed exams reviewed by a second professor

Entering Grades into Flexnow

- [ ] Secretary: Enter grades in Flexnow or create certificates ([script](https://github.com/digital-work-lab/handbook/tree/main/src/scheine)), print overview, sign (Professor) and send it to the examination office.

    - [Login: Flexnow](https://fn2web.zuv.uni-bamberg.de/FN2AUTH/FN2AuthServlet?op=Login) - Lehrstuhlmodul - Prüfungsteilnehmer / zentral organisiert / Veranstaltung auswählen / Teilnehmer laden
    - Formular zum Ändern einzelner Teilnehmer: Noten eingeben (Punkte müssen nicht eingegeben werden), speichern und weiter
    - Oder CSV: export (utf-8), add grades/points via vlookup, import (csv-format: semicolon, no quotes)
    - Im oberen Bereich: Meldung der Ergebnisse ans Prüfungsamt
    - Create PDF, print, sign, Stempel, einscannen ([14.01](https://nc-2272638881871040784.nextcloud-ionos.com/index.php/apps/files/?dir=/10-lab/14_grades/01_lectures&fileid=71)) und ans PA schicken (wiai.pruefungen@uni-bamberg.de).
    - Only store grades as PDF (not as csv)?
    - Klausuren entsprechend der Reihenfolge im PDF sortieren.

Sending exams to the examination office

- [ ] Professor: Exams should be sent to the examination office (in person): [Silke Nüßlein](https://univis.uni-bamberg.de/prg?search=persons&show=info&department=322130&fullname=Silke+Nue%C3%9Flein), Kapuzinerstr. 25, 00.01

Documentation

- [ ] Professor: Analyse the evaluations, store the files, and document the improvements (see [evaluations](30.21.evaluations.html)).
- [ ] Professor: [Report](30.20.reports.html) teaching efforts at the end of the semester.
- [ ] Professor: Archive presentation protocols (projects and seminars: digital is sufficient).

Deadline: End of August (summer term), March (winter term)

## 5. Repeat exam (following term)

Students have the possibility to repeat the exam in the following term (even if the lecture is not offered again). Registration for students in FlexNOW is created by the examination office. (true???)

- [ ] Professor: Upon notification by the examination office (E-Mail: "Prüferbestellung"), create the repeat exam. Student registrations are available in FlexNOW.
- [ ] Repeat relevant steps of *Exams and documentation* (step 4) 

Students can review their exams and grades in person (Einsichtnahme) on the dates set by the examination office ([link](https://www.uni-bamberg.de/pruefungsamt/einsichtnahmen/)).

## Applicable regulations

- [Ordnung zur Sicherung der Qualität in Lehre und Studium](https://www.uni-bamberg.de/fileadmin/www.abt-studium/Rechtsvorschriften/1Organisation/Evaluation%20Lehre%20Studium/O-Sicherung-Qualitaet-Lehre-Studium-1.pdf)
