---
layout: default
parent: 30 Teaching Processes
grand_parent: Teaching
nav_exclude: true
---

# Theses: Topics
{: .no_toc }

The following topics are currently open for Bachelor's and Master's theses:

<details>
<summary>## Future of Work: A review of reviews</summary>

In recent years, we have seen a tremendous growth of research dedicated to the future of work, covering topics like the transition to remote work, emerging forms of online labour, as well as (techno) stress and well-being. An effective transfer of scientific findings into practice is challenged by the unprecedented volume of research studies published each year. In this context, integrated overviews of existing research are essential to properly inform managerial stakeholders on the key areas and topics investigated by academia. Such work can also offer useful guidance and shape the agendas of researchers. The goal of this thesis is to provide an overview of prior research related to the future of work, focusing on prior review papers exclusively. For example, the reviews of Marsh et al. (2022), Mitchell et al. (2022), and Gol2019 cover relevant facets. More generally, the objective would be to use available guidelines (Thomson et al. 2010), search for review papers on digital work, complete a structured selection process (screen), and synthesize the key findings adopting a concept-centric perspective (see Webster and Watson 2000). Relevant implications for practice and research conclude the thesis.

Method: Literature review (qualitative)

References:

Gol, E. S., Stein, M. K., & Avital, M. (2019). Crowdwork platform governance toward organizational value creation. The Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 28(2), 175-195.

Marsh, E., Vallejos, E. P., & Spence, A. (2022). The digital workplace and its dark side: An integrative review. Computers in Human Behavior, 128, 107118.

Mitchell, R., Shen, Y., & Snell, L. (2022). The future of work: a systematic literature review. Accounting & Finance, 62(2), 2667-2686.

Thomson, D., Russell, K., Becker, L., Klassen, T., & Hartling, L. (2010). The evolution of a new publication type: steps and challenges of producing overviews of reviews. Research synthesis methods, 1(3‐4), 198-211.

Webster, J., & Watson, R. T. (2002). Analyzing the past to prepare for the future: Writing a literature review. MIS quarterly, xiii-xxiii.

</details>