---
layout: default
title: 30.40 Theses
parent: 30 Teaching Processes
grand_parent: Teaching
nav_order: 41
---

# 30.40 Theses

The thesis is one of the key accomplishments when studying at a University. To support you throughout the process, we provide a clear overview of the steps, transparent evaluation criteria, as well as a developmental approach.
An overview of the process is available [here](30.40.theses_process.html) and information on individual theses is recorded internally ([35 Theses](../35_theses.html)).

## 1. First contact (Student)

Students can select open topics available on our [website](https://www.uni-bamberg.de/digital-work/studium/abschlussarbeiten/) or suggest topics related to our research areas.
Reach out via e-mail to start the process.

## 2. Initial meeting (Student, Professor)

Appointment with Professor Wagner to discuss topic and next steps.

## 3. Exposé (Student)

Students create an exposé and send it to Professor Wagner and wait for feedback and a meeting date.

## 4. Apply for admission (Student)

Students send the application for admission to the thesis to the *examination office* via their Stud e-mail address. You can use [this e-mail template](30.40.thesis_admission_mail.html).

## 5. Verification of the admission (Examination Office)

The examination office verifies the admission requirements.

- If admission requirements are met, the topic confirmation is created with text fields so that the topic of the thesis and the date of topic issue can be entered.
- If the admission requirements are not met, the student is notified that the application has been rejected.

The examination office may ask the student to request an approval by the examination committee (Prüfungsausschuss) to write a thesis in the area of *Digital Work*. This is the case when older regulations (Studien- und Fachprüfungsordnung) apply (i.e., when master studies were started before 2018).

## 6. Transmission of the topic confirmation (Examination office)

Transmission of the topic confirmation as a (protected) Word document (.docx) by e-mail to the student together with processing/submission instructions as well as inspection statement with the request to arrange an appointment with the examiner to determine the topic and sign the topic confirmation. At the same time, the examiner or the chair's office receives this message in CC for information.
(Link to the document)

## 7. Filling out the topic confirmation (Student, Professor)

Student and examiner make an appointment to determine the topic with signing of the topic confirmation:

- 1 original with signature of the examiners and the student for the student.
- 1 original with signature of the examiners and the student for archiving at the chair

## 8. Transmission to the examination office (Professor)

The copy for the examination office is sent by the chair as a Word document (.docx) by e-mail to the examination office.

The topic and the day of topic issue are entered into FlexNow by the examination office.

Additional information: Bachelor's theses are usually due in 4 months, Master's theses in 6 months. The official requirements can be found in the regulations linked below.
It is not necessary to submit the thesis in the semester in which it was started (unless you would take longer than the maximum duration of study).

For the following Bachelor's and Master's programs is a practical part in the thesis required:

- Bachelor Angewandte Informatik
- Bachelor Software Systems Science
- Master Angewandte Informatik
- Master Software Systems Science
- Master Computing in the Humanities

## 9. Thesis writing and feedback sessions (Student, Professor)

The student begins to write the thesis.
A thesis must be written in English.
The following resources are relevant:

- The [evaluation criteria](30.40.theses_criteria.html)
- The [schedule](30.40.theses_schedule.html)
- The [thesis template](https://github.com/digital-work-lab/thesis-template)
- The [literature review section](../../research/20_processes/20.10.literature-review.html)
- The [analysis templates section](../../research/20_processes/20.21.analysis-templates.html)
- The [writing section](../../research/20_processes/20.29.writing.html) (in particular correct citation practices)

We offer regular feedback sessions (every one to two weeks) to discuss open questions and the next steps. Feedback sessions can be in person or online:

[Schedule feedback session](https://calendly.com/gerit-wagner/30min){: .btn .btn-green }

## 10. Submission of the thesis (Student)

Two copies in hard bound form and one digital version each are to be submitted to the examination office.

- During opening hours Mon-Fri 10.00 - 12.00: Hand in the thesis at the examination office (Kapuzinerstr. 25)
- Outside of opening hours: Drop the thesis in the mailbox of the University Administration (Kapuzinerstr. 16)
- Dispatch by mail (the date of the postmark counts) Otto-Friedrich-University, Examination Office - 96045 Bamberg

## 11. Thesis presentation (Student)

- The student must present at her/his master thesis ...
- Students are informed about the weights for the written part and the presentation (see #13).
- The professor sets a date for the presentation
- A second examiner is required (check whether this is adequate)
- The grading template is available here (**TODO**)
- Protocols should be archived (digitally / paper versions?)

## 12. Grading (Professor)

The Professor writes a review and grades the thesis.

- A thesis is checked for plagiarism and generative AI based on [Turnitin](https://www.uni-bamberg.de/its/turnitin) and [gptzero](https://gptzero.me). In case plagiarism is detected, the [Plagiarism Process](30.52.plagiarism.html) is started.
- If programming is required as part of the thesis, this should be confirmed in the review.
- For master theses, the weight of the written part is 67% and the weight of the presentation is 33% (based on [Master WI MHB](https://www.uni-bamberg.de/fileadmin/abt-studium/Modulhandbuecher/WIAI/WI/Master/MHB_MA_WI_2018.pdf)). **Grades for the thesis and the colloquium must be stated separately**.
- The deadline is given by the examination office. Our goal is to grade theses within two weeks (the official deadline allows up to 4 months). 
- The review and grade are sent to the examination office. They are archived at [14.04](https://nc-2272638881871040784.nextcloud-ionos.com/index.php/apps/files/?dir=/10-lab/14_grades/04_theses&fileid=73).
- Grades are entered by the examination office. Students can check the grade via FlexNow.

## 13. Feedback session (Professor, Student)

We provide feedback on the thesis and explain the grading.

[Schedule feedback session](https://calendly.com/gerit-wagner/30min){: .btn .btn-green }

## Applicable regulations

<!-- 
- Bachelor Business Information Systems
- Bachelor International Information Systems Management
- Bachelor Angewandte Informatik
- Bachelor Software Systems Science
- Master Business Information Systems
- Master International Information Systems Management
- Master Angewandte Informatik
- Master Software Systems Science
- Master Computing in the Humanities
 -->

- [Prüfungs- und Studienordnungen](https://www.uni-bamberg.de/abt-studium/aufgaben/pruefungs-studienordnungen/), insbes. Modulhandbücher
