---
layout: default
title: 30.41 Hall-of-fame
parent: 30 Teaching Processes
grand_parent: Teaching
nav_order: 42
---

# 30.41 Hall-of-fame: Student accomplishments

## Design of artifacts, publication of datasets

Students using the GitHub accounts dengdenglele, MalouSchmidt, ThomasFleischmann, ossendorfluca, AntonFrisch, RobertAhr, Cohen2000, Janus678, einfachjessi, katharinaernst, frxdericz, mhlbrsimon, DjogoF, [CoLRev](https://github.com/CoLRev-Environment/colrev) (complete overview of [contributors](https://github.com/CoLRev-Environment/colrev/graphs/contributors))

Julian Prester: [deep-cenic](https://github.com/julianprester/deep-cenic)

Philip Empl: [enlit](https://github.com/geritwagner/enlit)

## Awards

Best Paper Award, IS Division, **Antoine Grenier-Ouimet**, Gerit Wagner, and Guy Paré. Received at the 2020 Conference of the Administrative Sciences Association of Canada, St. John’s, Newfoundland and Labrador/Canada, 2020.

Best Theory Paper Award, **Richard Schuster**, Gerit Wagner, and Guido Schryen. Received at the 39th International Conference on Information Systems (2018), San Francisco, California/USA, 2018.

Christa Lindner Prize 2018: Richard Schuster.

Christa Lindner Prize 2017: Julian Prester.

## Publications

**Prester, J.**, Wagner, G., Hassan, N. R., and Schryen, G. 2021. “Classifying the Ideational Impact of Information Systems Review Articles: A Content-Enriched Deep Learning Approach”. Decision Support Systems (DSS), 140, 113432.

Wagner, G., **Empl, P.**, and Schryen, G. 2020. “Designing a Novel Strategy for Reading and Skimming Literature Corpora,” in Proceedings of the 28Cℎ European Conference on Information Systems (ECIS 2020), Marrakech, Morocco.

**Schuster, R.**, Wagner, G., and Schryen, G. 2018. “Information Systems Design Science Research and Cumulative Knowledge Development: An Exploratory Study,” in Proceedings of the 39th International Conference on Information Systems (ICIS 2018), San Francisco, California, USA
