---
layout: default
title: 34.03 LR-Sem SS24
parent: 34 Seminars
grand_parent: Teaching
nav_order: 3
---

# 34.03 LR-Sem SS24

Field | Value
--- | ---
Title | The literature review seminar
Lecturer | Gerit Wagner
Link: VC | TODO
Link: Website | [the-literature-review-seminar](https://digital-work-lab.github.io/literature-review-seminar/)
Status | ⟳ in-preparation

## Process

- Flexnow: Seminars must be created for each semester (decentral exams), a seminar paper and presentation are mandatory
- Grading: the secretary registers students for the seminar, enters grades, prints the list, has it signed, and sends it to the examination office.

## 1. Announce the seminar (4 months before)
 
Start: December (summer term), May (winter term)

- [ ] Professor: Update information on the website.
- [ ] Secretary: Create the course in Flexnow.
- [ ] Professor: Update information in Univis (**add keywords „WI-Seminar“ and „WI-Seminare“**), check information on the website.
- [ ] Professor: The seminar should be announced in the [Fachschaft WIAI newsletter](https://vc.uni-bamberg.de/course/view.php?id=284)

Deadline: mid-May (summer term), December/January (winter term)

## 2. Prepare the seminar (1 month before)

Start: March (summer term), September (winter term)

- [ ] Secretary and Professor: Set dates and request lecture rooms.
- [ ] IT department: Create the VC course, two weeks before the semester starts (automatically based on Univis).
- [ ] Professor: Create a reminder for the evaluations.
- [ ] Secretary: Add moderator and session dates in VC.
- [ ] Professor: Activate course in VC (visible to students).

Deadline: April (summer term), October (winter term)

## 3. Offer the seminar

Start: April (summer term), October (winter term)

- [ ] Professor: Schedule evaluations in the pen-ultimate week ([30.21.evaluations](30.21.evaluations.html)).
- [ ] Professor (Secretary): Prepare the exams (Deadline: day of the exam), information is typically provided one month before the semester ends (E-Mail: "Prüferbestellung"). Check whether points add up, whether the number of points per task is consistent with the grading expectations - e.g., "list two examples" should correspond to 2 or 4 points. (**TODO: where to store the exam**). Review the exam for typos. Print it and prepare the exam materials. Add the date of the exam to the calendar and prepare to hand it over personally.
- [ ] Scheine ([Formular](https://www.uni-bamberg.de/ism/studium/anmeldung-scheinklausur/)), Scheinklausur-anmeldungen bei Erstellung der Klausurbögen berücksichtigen

## 4. Grading and documentation

Grading

- [ ] Create reminder for the deadline.
- [ ] Use the [grading scripts](https://github.com/digital-work-lab/handbook/tree/main/src/grading) to assign grades and prepare Flexnow import
- [ ] Have failed exams reviewed by a second professor (?)

Entering Grades into Flexnow

- [ ] Secretary: Enter grades in Flexnow or create certificates ([script](https://github.com/digital-work-lab/handbook/tree/main/src/scheine)), print overview, sign (Professor) and send it to the examination office.

    - [Login: Flexnow](https://fn2web.zuv.uni-bamberg.de/FN2AUTH/FN2AuthServlet?op=Login) - Lehrstuhlmodul - Prüfungsteilnehmer / zentral organisiert / Veranstaltung auswählen / Teilnehmer laden
    - Formular zum Ändern einzelner Teilnehmer: Noten eingeben (Punkte müssen nicht eingegeben werden), speichern und weiter
    - Oder CSV: export (utf-8), add grades/points via vlookup, import (csv-format: semicolon, no quotes)
    - Im oberen Bereich: Meldung der Ergebnisse ans Prüfungsamt
    - Create PDF, print, sign, Stempel, einscannen ([14.01](https://nc-2272638881871040784.nextcloud-ionos.com/index.php/apps/files/?dir=/10-lab/14_grades/01_lectures&fileid=71)) und ans PA schicken (wiai.pruefungen@uni-bamberg.de).
    - Only store grades as PDF (not as csv)?
    - Klausuren entsprechend der Reihenfolge im PDF sortieren.

- Grades are archived at [14.03](https://nc-2272638881871040784.nextcloud-ionos.com/index.php/apps/files/?dir=/10-lab/14_grades/03_seminars&fileid=72).

Sending exams to the examination office

- [ ] Professor: Exams are sent to the examination office (in person): [Silke Nüßlein](https://univis.uni-bamberg.de/prg?search=persons&show=info&department=322130&fullname=Silke+Nue%C3%9Flein), Kapuzinerstr. 25, 00.01

Documentation

- [ ] Professor: Analyse the evaluations, store the files, and document the improvements (see [evaluations](30.21.evaluations.html)).
- [ ] Professor: [Report](30.20.reports.html) teaching efforts at the end of the semester.
- [ ] Professor: Archive presentation protocols (projects and seminars: digital is sufficient).

Deadline: End of August (summer term), March (winter term)
