---
layout: default
title: 30.21 Evaluations
parent: 30 Teaching Processes
grand_parent: Teaching
nav_order: 21
---

# 30.21 Evaluations

## Purpose

Evaluate teaching activities **at the end of each semester**.

## Evaluation results

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Semester</th>
      <th>Course</th>
      <th>Evaluation / Status</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    {% for course in site.courses %}
    <tr>
      <td>{{ course.semester }}</td>
      <td><a href="{{ site.baseurl }}{{ course.url }}">{{ course.title }}</a></td>
      <td>
        {% if course.student_evaluations %}
          <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/evaluations/{{ course.student_evaluations }}">PDF</a>
        {% else %}
          {% if course.improvement_status %}
            {{ course.improvement_status }}
          {% else %}
            N/A
          {% endif %}
        {% endif %}
      </td>
    </tr>
    {% endfor %}
  </tbody>
</table>


## Process

- Evaluations can be ordered by **early January / early July**
  - They can be ordered via EvaSys, which requires a **minimum of 5 students** to complete the evaluation. Otherwise, anonymity is not given, and results will not be made available.
  - For small courses, it is possible to use other tools or modes of evaluation.
- Evaluation results and potential improvements should be discussed with students (last week of teaching).
- Students should be reminded in the session and via VC.
- Add to the list of prior reports below.
- The evaluation results are stored in 19.XXXXXX (Nextcloud) and published in the handbook (linked in the table below).
- Evaluations results should be analyzed to improve teaching activities. Improvements are documented in the [30.22 Improvements](30.22.improvements.html) section.

## Example for the invitation to the evaluation

Dear Students,

We kindly invite you to participate in the upcoming course evaluation. Your feedback is completely voluntary and anonymous, so please feel free to be open and honest in your responses. Your participation helps us improve the quality of our courses, and we highly value your opinions.

Please rest assured that your responses will remain confidential, and there is no risk of disadvantage or negative consequences for you, regardless of the feedback you provide.

Thank you for your time and honest feedback!


## System

{: .text-center}

[EvaSys](https://www.uni-bamberg.de/its/lehrevaluation/){: .btn .btn-green target="_blank"}

## Applicable regulations

- [Evaluation der Lehre (ยง5 and ยง6)](https://www.uni-bamberg.de/fileadmin/www.abt-studium/Rechtsvorschriften/1Organisation/Evaluation%20Lehre%20Studium/180305-O-Sicherung-Qualitaet-Lehre-Studium.pdf){: target="_blank"}
