---
layout: default
title: 30.20 Reports
parent: 30 Teaching Processes
grand_parent: Teaching
nav_order: 21
---

# 30.20 Reports

## Purpose and applicable regulations

Report teaching activities **after each semester** in line with [Lehrverpflichtungsverordnung (LUV)](https://www.uni-bamberg.de/fileadmin/uni/verwaltung/mittelbau-konvent/Lehrverpflichtungsverordnung2004.pdf).

## Responsibility

- Professor

## Process

- Notification is sent out by the Dean's office (mid July / ...)
- The form is available online ([Erklärung zur Erfüllung der Lehrverpflichtung](https://www.uni-bamberg.de/abt-personal/formulare-infos-und-merkblaetter/){: target="_blank"} / Lehrdeputat)
- Required to teach 5 SWS (in the first three years).

Theses

- Check theses overview (35.000) for theses completed this semester.
- Check prior reports to **avoid reporting the same thesis twice**.
- Theses can be reported in the semester of admission or grading.
- If the LUFV deadline has already passed, a thesis can also be reported in the following semester.
- Theses that have required considerable effort for supervision but were not completed may also be reported.
- SWS: 0.15 for Bachelor's theses, and 0.45 for Master's theses.
- A maximum of 2 SWS for theses can be reported per semester.

Projects

- Declared either as "Seminaristischer Unterricht" (factor: 0.5) or as "Übung" (factor: 1)
- Groups can be split with more than 10 participants.
- Note: new categories will become available soon, including "projects".

Submission

- Print, sign, and add copy to [19 archive](../../10-lab/19_archive.html).
- Add to the list of prior reports below.
- Submit to the Dean's office (report due: mid September / ...)

## Prior reports

| Semester    | Report / Status  |
|-------------|------------------|
| WS 2022/23  | 19.000031        |
| SS 2023     | 19.000035        |
