---
layout: default
title: 30.59 Exams
parent: 30 Teaching Processes
grand_parent: Teaching
nav_order: 60
---

# 30.59 Exams
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

- TOC
{:toc}

## Administration

- When creating the course in FlexNow, we state that exams will be organized by the examination office ("zentral organisiert").
- Team Assistant: [order labels etc.](../../10-lab/10_processes/10.52.orders.html#examination-documents) ("Etiketten und Mantelbögen") as needed
- The examination office sends out an e-mail request, asking for the number of additional students ("Meldung der Scheinteilnehmenden") 

## Preparing the exam

{: .resource }
> - [digital-work-lecture-exam](https://github.com/digital-work-lab/digital-work-lecture-exam){: target="_blank"} 🔒

**Creating a new exam**

- Copy the `template_for_copying.tex` to archive and rename; Start with the `_with_solution.tex`
- Update the header (semester)
- Check admissible auxiliaries (**student summaries**)
- Create exam questions (referring to `collection_exam_questions_and_solutions.tex`)
- Check whether all the contents were covered in the lecture (if sessions were skipped, the contents cannot be covered in the exam)
- Check specific notes in the `README.md` of the respective exam repository
- Add grading notes, e.g., "Bewertung: pro fehlendem Zustand und Kante: -0,5 Punkte"
- Count points within tasks
- Count points overall
- Spellcheck
- Copy the template and remove the solutions, update the header
- Update the `collection_exam_questions_and_solutions.tex`
- When the exams are not printed immediately, add a reminder to include the student summaries (if applicable)

**Print**

- Print exams
- Add student summaries (if applicable)

## Preparing materials

- Examination documents by mail
- Envelope includes:
  - Important exam documents for your central exams
  - Checklist for completing the written exams
  - Name labels
  - Examination protocol
  - Event log during an exam
  - Name notices
  - Signs “Please do not disturb the exam.”
  - Attendance list/paper check
  - Checklist “Examination Process Flow”
  - Supervision guidelines
  - Information sheet on canceling an exam for health reasons
  - Participants during maternity leave, "Scheinteilnehmende", etc.
- Professor includes the exam sheet (and summaries if applicable)

## Examination day

- Examination dates are announced via email by the examination office
- Materials are provided by the professor
- The secretariat will receive further important information by email, for example, on the topic of “identification after exams” ("Nachträgliche Identitätsfeststellung")

{: .important }
> - Cases of cheating (Unterschleif): immediately enter it into FlexNow and send the exam to the examination office (do not grade it)
> - Cases of missed exams (Versäumnisklausuren): immediately enter it into FlexNow, archive the exams for 1 year in the filing cabinet.
> - Send the exam sheets, protocols (Anwesenheitslisten), and two empty exams to the examination office immediately after the exams are completed.
> - Empty exams (Versäumnis-Klausur): archive for one semester.

## Grading

- Create a reminder for the deadline: approx. 15. September (summer term), ??? (winter term). Grade early because colleagues may be on vacation before the deadline (not available to review failed exams).
- Add bonus points if any and **if exam is passed**. Otherwise, note the bonus points and add a note "kann nicht angerechnet werden".
- Do not dispose of empty exams
- Use the [grading scripts](https://github.com/digital-work-lab/handbook/tree/main/src/grading){: target="_blank"} to assign grades and prepare FlexNow import
- Have failed exams reviewed by a second professor

## Enter grades in FlexNow

- Grades are entered in [FlexNow](30.15.flexnow.html#entering-grades).
- Certificates can be issued if exams are not (yet) available in FlexNow ([script](https://github.com/digital-work-lab/handbook/tree/main/src/scheine){: target="_blank"}).
- Exams are sent to the examination office (in person): [Silke Nüßlein](https://univis.uni-bamberg.de/prg?search=persons&show=info&department=322130&fullname=Silke+Nue%C3%9Flein){: target="_blank"}, Kapuzinerstr. 25, 00.01
