---
layout: default
title: 30.60 Reviews
parent: 30 Teaching Processes
grand_parent: Teaching
nav_order: 61
---

# 30.60 Reviews and appeals

This is the process for students to appeal against their grades for centrally organized exams and other exams (e.g. thesis, projects and seminars)

## Centrally organized exams (Nachkorrektur)

### Procedure - Students

- For exams that are organized centrally, students can attend the "Reviewing Examination Results Date", which can be found on this website: "https://www.uni-bamberg.de/en/studies/currently-enrolled/office-of-examinations/translate-to-1-english-einsichtnahmen/". 
- During these reviewing days, students are encouraged to take notes and photographs of the exam. If students notice any discrepancies, they can write down their observations on a separate piece of paper and take pictures. 
- After the reviewing days, students can send an email to the responsible chair and request a correction, but only if they can specifically identify the questions and provide a picture of the exam task that requires correction.
- Afterwards, the chair determines whether a post-correction is necessary based on the description and picture, and informs the student via email.

### Procedure - Chair

- When the chair receives a student’s correction request, the respective exam has to be requested at the examination office (E-Mail to: registratur.pruefungen@uni-bamberg.de, including student’s name and matriculation number). 
- After arrival at the chair, the exam will then be post-corrected by the professor/lecturer. When points or grade change, incorrect points or grade are to be crossed out, correct points and grade stated, together with date, stamp and signature.
- The exam then goes back to the examination office, which carries our a possible change of grades in FlexNOW.

## Other exams

For projects, seminars, and theses, feedback and comments are part of the process. You can ask to review the grading of your work and discuss potential corrections.
