---
layout: default
title: 34.04 LR-Sem WS 24/25
parent: 34 Seminars
grand_parent: Teaching
nav_order: 5
---

# 34.04 LR-Sem WS 24/25

Field | Value
--- | ---
Title | The literature review seminar
Lecturer | Gerit Wagner
Link: VC | TODO
Link: Website | [the-literature-review-seminar](https://digital-work-lab.github.io/literature-review-seminar/){: target="_blank"}
Status | ⟳ in-preparation


## Process

**TODO**: set deadline etc.

- Flexnow: Seminars must be created for each semester (decentral exams), a seminar paper and presentation are mandatory
- Grading: the secretary registers students for the seminar, enters grades, and submits them online.

## 1. Announce the seminar (4 months before)
 
Start: December (summer term), May (winter term)

- [ ] Professor: Announce seminar on the website for the next semester (without dates/rooms).
- [x] Secretary: Create the course in Flexnow.
- [ ] Secretary: Update information in Univis (**add keywords „WI-Seminar“ and „WI-Seminare“**), check information on the website.
- Note: If the course is mentioned on the website, it should automatically be announced in the [Fachschaft WIAI newsletter](https://vc.uni-bamberg.de/course/view.php?id=284){: target="_blank"}{: target="_blank"}

Deadline: mid-May (summer term), December/January (winter term)

## 2. Prepare the seminar (1 month before)

Start: March (summer term), September (winter term)

- [ ] Secretary and Professor: Set dates and request lecture rooms.
- [ ] IT department: Create the VC course, two weeks before the semester starts (automatically based on Univis).
- [ ] Professor: Create a reminder for the evaluations.
- [ ] Secretary: Add moderator and session dates in VC.
- [ ] Professor: Activate course in VC (visible to students).

Deadline: April (summer term), October (winter term)

## 3. Offer the seminar

Start: April (summer term), October (winter term)

- [ ] Professor: Schedule evaluations in the pen-ultimate week ([30.21.evaluations]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/30-teaching/30_processes/30.21.evaluations.html)).
- [ ] Professor (Secretary): Prepare the exams (Deadline: day of the exam), information is typically provided one month before the semester ends (E-Mail: "Prüferbestellung"). Check whether points add up, whether the number of points per task is consistent with the grading expectations - e.g., "list two examples" should correspond to 2 or 4 points. (**TODO: where to store the exam**). Review the exam for typos. Print it and prepare the exam materials. Add the date of the exam to the calendar and prepare to hand it over personally.
- [ ] Scheine ([Formular](https://www.uni-bamberg.de/ism/studium/anmeldung-scheinklausur/){: target="_blank"}), Scheinklausur-anmeldungen bei Erstellung der Klausurbögen berücksichtigen

## 4. Grading and documentation

Grading

- [ ] Create reminder for the deadline.
- [ ] Use the [grading scripts](https://github.com/digital-work-lab/handbook/tree/main/src/grading){: target="_blank"} to assign grades and prepare Flexnow import
- [ ] Have failed exams reviewed by a second professor (?)

Entering Grades into Flexnow

- [ ] Secretary: [Enter grades in Flexnow](../30_processes/30.15.flexnow.html#entering-grades) (or create certificates if exam is not yet available in FlexNOW ([script](https://github.com/digital-work-lab/handbook/tree/main/src/scheine))).
- [ ] Professor: Archive grades presentation protocols (projects and seminars: digital is sufficient) at [14.03](https://nc-2272638881871040784.nextcloud-ionos.com/index.php/apps/files/?dir=/10-lab/14_grades/03_seminars&fileid=72){: target="_blank"}.

Sending exams to the examination office

- [ ] Professor: Exams are sent to the examination office (in person): [Silke Nüßlein](https://univis.uni-bamberg.de/prg?search=persons&show=info&department=322130&fullname=Silke+Nue%C3%9Flein){: target="_blank"}, Kapuzinerstr. 25, 00.01

Documentation

- [ ] Professor: Analyse the evaluations, store the files, and document the improvements (see [evaluations]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/30-teaching/30_processes/30.21.evaluations.html)).
- [ ] Professor: [Report]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/30-teaching/30_processes/30.20.reports.html) teaching efforts at the end of the semester.

Deadline: End of August (summer term), March (winter term)
